GCatch/README.md, before:

# GCatch: Automatically Detecting Concurrency Bugs in Go

## Descriptions

GCatch contains a suite of static detectors aiming to identify concurrency bugs in large, real Go software systems. Concurrency bugs covered by the current version of GCatch include blocking misuse-of-channel (BMOC) bugs, deadlocks caused by misuse of mutexes (\eg, lock-with-unlock, double lock), races on struct fields, and races due to errors when using the testing package. The technical details of GCatch are presented in Section 3 of our ASPLOS paper [1]. 

## Installation and Demonstration

GCatch leverages Z3 for constraint solving. If you have already installed Z3, you can use the `install.sh` script is to install GCatch. You can also install Z3 together with GCatch using the `installZ3.sh` script. 

After the installation, you can run the `run.sh` script to execute GCatch on a buggy version of gRPC. 

## Directories

1. Directory `analysis` contains static analysis routines shared by multiple checkers (e.g., computing post-dominator). 

2. Directory `checkers` contains code for implementing the checking functionalities.

3. Directory `cmd` is the entry point of GCatch.

4. Directory `config` contains configuration files of GCatch. 

5. Directory `instinfo` contains code for analyzing Go SSA instructions. 

6. Directory `output` contains code for printing the detection results. 

7. Directory `path` contains code for computation conducted on CFG.

8. Directory `ssabuild` contains code for transforming input programs into SSA. 

9. Directory `syncgraph` contains code for interaction with call graph, alias analysis, and Z3. 

10. Directory `testdata` contains a buggy version of gRPC. 

11. Directory `tests` contains toy programs to test traditional checkers. 

12. Directory `tools` contains copies of external packages. 

13. Directory `util` contains utility code shared by different components of GCatch. 

Please refer to the demonstration scripts to figure out how to use GCatch’s code. 


[1] Ziheng Liu, Shuofei Zhu, Boqin Qin, Hao Chen and Linhai Song. “Automatically Detecting and Fixing Concurrency Bugs in Go Software Systems.” In ASPLOS’2020.

Commit message:

Modify GCatch to support building application using go.mod, while remaining the old APIs not changed; also updates README.md

GCatch/README.md, after:

# GCatch: Automatically Detecting Concurrency Bugs in Go

## Descriptions

GCatch contains a suite of static detectors aiming to identify concurrency bugs in large, real Go software systems. Concurrency bugs covered by the current version of GCatch include blocking misuse-of-channel (BMOC) bugs, deadlocks caused by misuse of mutexes (\eg, lock-with-unlock, double lock), races on struct fields, and races due to errors when using the testing package. The technical details of GCatch are presented in Section 3 of our ASPLOS paper [1]. 

## Installation and Demonstration

GCatch leverages Z3 for constraint solving. If you have already installed Z3, you can use the `install.sh` script is to install GCatch. You can also install Z3 together with GCatch using the `installZ3.sh` script. 

After the installation, you can run the `run.sh` script to execute GCatch on a buggy version of gRPC. 

## Directories

1. Directory `analysis` contains static analysis routines shared by multiple checkers (e.g., computing post-dominator). 

2. Directory `checkers` contains code for implementing the checking functionalities.

3. Directory `cmd` is the entry point of GCatch.

4. Directory `config` contains configuration files of GCatch. 

5. Directory `instinfo` contains code for analyzing Go SSA instructions. 

6. Directory `output` contains code for printing the detection results. 

7. Directory `path` contains code for computation conducted on CFG.

8. Directory `ssabuild` contains code for transforming input programs into SSA. 

9. Directory `syncgraph` contains code for interaction with call graph, alias analysis, and Z3. 

10. Directory `testdata` contains a buggy version of gRPC. 

11. Directory `tests` contains toy programs to test traditional checkers. 

12. Directory `tools` contains copies of external packages. 

13. Directory `util` contains utility code shared by different components of GCatch. 

Please refer to the demonstration scripts to figure out how to use GCatch’s code. 

## Beta: build and check an application using go.mod

When we started this project, we didn't design to support programs with go.mod, mainly because the old applications that we evaluated GCatch on didn't support go.mod (actually some still don't support like docker).

This Beta version still requires you to build GCatch without go.mod, which can be done by `install.sh`. But once GCatch is compiled, you can use the following flags to require it to build and check one program using go.mod:

(1) `-mod` flag indicates that you want to build and check an application using go.mod

(2) `-mod-abs-path` flag gives the absolute path of the application. This path must include a correct go.mod file. E.g.: `-mod-abs-path=/home/you/stubs/grpc-go`, where grpc-go is directly cloned from github

(3) `-mod-module-path` flag gives the module path of the application. E.g.: `-mod-module-path=google.golang.org/grpc`

However, this Beta version lacks of testing and we still encourage you to use our traditional building way by GOPATH (more details are in `run.sh`).

Because our implementation of `-r` flag depends on GOPATH, this Beta version disables the `-r` flag so you can't recursively check applications in the subdirectories of the target application specified by `-mod-abs-path`. Note that it still checks dependencies of the target application



[1] Ziheng Liu, Shuofei Zhu, Boqin Qin, Hao Chen and Linhai Song. “Automatically Detecting and Fixing Concurrency Bugs in Go Software Systems.” In ASPLOS’2020.
